##### 4.3.8.1 DataStore (M)

> **Section ID**: 4.3.8.1 | **Page**: 90-90

4.3.8.1 DataStore (M)  
The DataStore is a byte table. It can be used by the host for generic secure data storage. The DataStore table 
SHALL be at least 10MB in size (the Table table object that represents the DataStore table SHALL have a Rows 
column value of at least 0x00A00000). The access control for modification or retrieval of data in the table initially 
requires a member of the Admins class authority. These access control settings are personalizable. The Initial 
DataStore content value is VU. 
5 
Appendix – SSC Specific Features 
5.1 Opal SSC-Specific Methods 
5.1.1 Activate – Admin Template SP Object Method 
Activate is an Opal SSC-specific method for managing the life cycle of SPs created in manufacturing (Manufactured 
SP), whose initial life cycle state is “Manufactured-Inactive”. The following pseudo-code is the signature of the 
Activate method (see [2] for more information). 
SPObjectUID.Activate[ ] 
=> 
[ ] 
Activate is an object method that operates on objects in the Admin SP’s SP table.  The TPer SHALL NOT permit 
Activate to be invoked on the SP objects of issued SPs. 
Invocation of Activate on an SP object that is in the “Manufactured-Inactive” state causes the SP to transition to the 
“Manufactured” state.  Invocation of Activate on an SP in any other life cycle state SHALL complete successfully 
provided access control is satisfied, and have no effect.  The Activate method allows the TPer owner to “turn on” 
an SP that was created in manufacturing. 
This method operates within a Read-Write session to the Admin SP.  The SP SHALL be activated immediately after 
the method returns success if its invocation is not contained within a transaction. 
In case of an “Activate Error” (see [4]), Activate SHALL fail with a status of FAIL. 
The MethodID for Activate SHALL be 0x00 00 00 06 00 00 02 03. 
5.1.1.1 Activate Support 
Support for Activate within transactions is (N), and the behavior of Activate within transactions is out of the scope 
of this specification. 
If the Locking SP was created in manufacturing, and its Original Factory State is Manufactured-Inactive (see section 
5.2.2), support for Activate on the Locking SP’s object in the SP table is Mandatory. 
5.1.1.2 Side effects of Activate 
Upon successful activation of an SP that was in the “Manufactured-Inactive” state, the following changes SHALL be 
made: 
• 
The LifeCycleState column of SP’s object in the Admin SP’s SP table SHALL change to “Manufactured”. 
• 
The current SID PIN (C_PIN_SID) in the Admin SP is copied into the PIN column of Admin1’s C_PIN credential 
(C_PIN_Admin1) in the activated SP.  This allows for taking ownership of the SP with a known PIN credential. 
• 
Any TPer functionality affected by the life cycle state of the SP based on the SP’s templates  is modified as 
defined in the appropriate Template reference section of [2], and as defined in the “State transitions for 
Manufactured SPs” section (see section 5.2.2.2) and “State behaviors for Manufactured SPs” section (see 
section 5.2.2.3) of this specification. 
5.1.2 Revert – Admin Template SP Object Method 
Revert is an Opal SSC-specific method for managing the life cycle of SPs created in manufacturing (Manufactured 
SP). The following pseudo-code is the signature of the Revert method (see [2] for more information). 
SPObjectUID.Revert[ ] 
=> 
[ ] 
