##### 5.1.2.2 Effects of Revert

> **Section ID**: 5.1.2.2 | **Page**: 92-92

5.1.2.2 Effects of Revert 
Upon successful invocation of the Revert method, the following changes SHALL be made: 
• 
If the Locking SP is not in the “Manufactured-Inactive” life cycle state, then successful invocation of the 
Revert method on the Locking SP or Admin SP SHALL cause user data removal as defined by the 
ActiveDataRemovalMechanism (see Table 33) and cause the media encryption keys to be eradicated, which 
has the side effect of securely erasing all data in the User LBA portion of the Storage Device. 
• 
If the Locking SP is in the “Manufactured-Inactive” life cycle state, then successful invocation of the Revert 
method on the Locking SP SHALL NOT cause user data removal in the Storage Device. 
Interactions with interface commands during the processing of the Revert method are defined in [4]. 
If any TCG reset occurs prior to completing user data removal and the eradication of all media encryption keys in the 
Storage Device, then the Revert operation SHALL be aborted and the Locking SP SHALL NOT revert to its Original 
Factory State. 
Start of Informative Comment 
If any TCG reset occurs during the processing of the Revert method, the result of user data removal is undefined 
and the TPer does not erase personalization of the Locking SP. For example, the PIN column value for each row in 
C_PIN table is unchanged. 
End of Informative Comment 
Upon completion of user data removal and the eradication of all media encryption keys in the Storage Device, or if 
the Locking SP is in the “Manufactured-Inactive” life cycle state, the following changes SHALL be made: 
• 
The row in the Admin SP’s SP table that represents the invoked SP SHALL revert to its original factory values. 
• 
The SP itself SHALL revert to its Original Factory State.  While reverting to its Original Factory State, the TPer 
SHALL securely erase all personalization of the SP, and return personalized values to their Original Factory 
State values.  The mechanism for erasure of personalization is implementation-specific.  
• 
When the Revert method is successfully invoked on the SP object for the Admin SP (UID = 0x00 00 02 
05 00 00 00 01), the entire TPer SHALL revert to its Original Factory State, including: 
o 
All Admin SP personalization with the exception of the PIN column value of the C_PIN_SID object.  
