###### 5.2.2.2.2 ANY STATE to ORIGINAL FACTORY STATE

> **Section ID**: 5.2.2.2.2 | **Page**: 97-97

(see section 5.2.2.2.2).  As the only mandatory state for the Admin SP is Manufactured, the only mandatory transition 
is from Manufactured to Manufactured with the side effect of reverting the entire TPer to its Original Factory State.  
See section 5.1.2 for details. 
If the Locking SP is a Manufactured SP, support for the “ANY STATE to ORIGINAL FACTORY STATE” transition (see 
section 5.2.2.2.2) is Mandatory.  Specifically, support for the transition from Manufactured to either Manufactured-
Inactive or Manufactured is Mandatory, depending on the Locking SP’s Original Factory State.  This transition is 
accomplished via the Revert or RevertSP method (see sections 5.1.2 and 5.1.2.3). 
If the Locking SP’s Original Factory State is Manufactured-Inactive, then support for the “Manufactured-Inactive to 
Manufactured” transition (see section 5.2.2.2.1) is Mandatory.  This transition is accomplished via the Activate 
method (see section 5.1.1). 
5.2.2.2.1 Manufactured-Inactive to Manufactured 
Triggers: 
• 
The Activate method (see section 5.1.1) is successfully invoked on the SP’s object in the Admin SP’s SP 
table. 
Side effects: 
• 
The value in the LifeCycleState column of the SP’s object in the Admin SP’s SP table changes to 
Manufactured. 
• 
The current SID PIN (C_PIN_SID) in the Admin SP is copied into the PIN column of Admin1’s C_PIN credential 
(C_PIN_Admin1) in the activated SP.  This allows taking ownership of the SP with a known PIN credential. 
• 
Any functionality enabled by the templates incorporated into the SP becomes active. 
When the Locking SP transitions from the Manufactured-Inactive state to the Manufactured state (via invocation of 
the Activate method), the Storage Device SHALL NOT destroy any user data. 
5.2.2.2.2 ANY STATE to ORIGINAL FACTORY STATE 
Triggers: 
• 
Revert or RevertSP is successfully invoked on the SP. 
Side effects: 
• 
The value in the LifeCycleState column of the SP’s object in the Admin SP’s SP table changes to the value of 
the SP’s Original Factory State. 
• 
The SP itself reverts to its Original Factory State, as described in sections 5.1.2 and 5.1.3.  
• 
If the SP’s Original Factory State was Manufactured-Inactive, any functionality enabled by the templates 
incorporated into the SP becomes inactive. 
