###### 5.1.2.2.1 Effects of Revert on the PIN Column Value of C_PIN_SID

> **Section ID**: 5.1.2.2.1 | **Page**: 93-93

See section 5.1.2.2.1 for the effects of the Revert method upon the PIN column value of the 
C_PIN_SID object.   
o 
All issued SPs SHALL be deleted, and all Manufactured SPs SHALL revert to Original Factory State. 
Manufactured SPs in the “Manufactured-Inactive” life cycle state SHALL NOT be affected. 
• 
Any TPer functionality affected by the life cycle state of the SP based on the templates incorporated into it is 
modified as defined in the appropriate Template reference section of [2], and as defined in the “State 
transitions for Manufactured SPs” section (see section 5.2.2.2) and “State behaviors for Manufactured SPs” 
section (see section 5.2.2.3) of this specification. 
Start of Informative Comment 
Unless already in the Manufactured-Inactive life cycle state, reverting the Locking SP will cause the media encryption 
keys to be eradicated, which has the side effect of securely erasing all data in the User LBA portion of the Storage 
Device. 
End of Informative Comment 
5.1.2.2.1 Effects of Revert on the PIN Column Value of C_PIN_SID 
When Revert is successfully invoked on the SP object for the Admin SP (UID = 0x00 00 02 05 00 00 00 01), 
the PIN column value of the C_PIN_SID object SHALL be affected as follows: 
1. If the SID authority has never been successfully authenticated, then the C_PIN_SID PIN column SHALL 
remain at its current value. 
2. If the SID authority has previously been successfully authenticated, then: 
a) If the value of the “Behavior of C_PIN_SID PIN upon TPer Revert” field in the Opal SSC V2 feature 
descriptor is 0x00, then the C_PIN_SID PIN column SHALL be set to the PIN column value of the 
C_PIN_MSID object.  Additionally, the “Initial C_PIN_SID PIN Indicator” field SHALL be set to 0x00 
upon completion of the Revert. 
b) If the value of the “Behavior of C_PIN_SID PIN upon TPer Revert” field in the Opal SSC V2 feature 
descriptor is not 0x00, then the C_PIN_SID PIN column SHALL be set to a vendor unique (VU) value. 
Start of Informative Comment 
In the case where the “Initial C_PIN_SID PIN Indicator” and “Behavior of C_PIN_SID PIN upon TPer Revert” fields 
are both 0x00, the above rules for Revert are backward compatible with Opal v1.00. 
End of Informative Comment 
