### 2.1 Memory-Based Transport Model (PCIe)

> **Section ID**: 2.1 | **Page**: 44-46

In the memory-based model, Submission and Completion Queues are allocated in memory.
A host creates queues, up to the maximum supported by the controller. Typically, the number of command
queues created is based on the system configuration and anticipated workload. For example, on a four
core processor based system, there may be a queue pair per core to avoid locking and ensure data
structures are created in the appropriate processor core’s cache. Figure 6 provides a graphical
representation of the queue pair mechanism, showing a 1:1 mapping between Submission Queues and
Completion Queues. Figure 7 shows an example where multiple I/O Submission Queues utilize the same
I/O Completion Queue on Core B. Figure 6 and Figure 7 show that there is always a 1:1 mapping between
the Admin Submission Queue and Admin Completion Queue.
A Submission Queue (SQ) is a circular buffer with a fixed slot size that the host uses to submit commands
for execution by the controller. The host updates the appropriate SQ Tail doorbell register when there are
one to n new commands to execute. The previous SQ Tail value is overwritten in the controller when there
is a new doorbell register write. The controller fetches SQ entries in order from the Submission Queue and
may execute those commands in any order.
Each submission queue entry is a command. Commands are 64 bytes in size. The physical memory
locations in memory to use for data transfers are specified using Physical Region Page (PRP) entries or
Scatter Gather Lists (SGL). Each command may include two PRP entries or one Scatter Gather List
segment. If more than two PRP entries are necessary to describe the data buffer, then a pointer to a PRP
List that describes a list of PRP entries is provided. If more than one SGL segment is necessary to describe
the data buffer, then the SGL segment provides a pointer to the next SGL segment.
A Completion Queue (CQ) is a circular buffer with a fixed slot size used to post status for completed
commands. A completed command is uniquely identified by a combination of the associated SQ identifier
and command identifier that is assigned by a host. In the memory-based transport model multiple
Submission Queues may be associated with a single Completion Queue. A configuration with a single
Completion Queue may be used where a single worker thread processes all command completions via one
Completion Queue even when those commands originated from multiple Submission Queues. The CQ
Head pointer is updated by a host after processing completion queue entries indicating the last free CQ
slot. A Phase Tag (P) bit is defined in the completion queue entry to indicate whether an entry has been
newly posted without the host consulting a register (refer to section 4.2.4). The Phase Tag bit enables the
host to determine whether entries are new or not.
