#### 2.3.1 Storage Entities

> **Section ID**: 2.3.1 | **Page**: 49-54

The NVM storage model includes the following entities:
•
NVM subsystems (refer to section 1.5.68);
•
Domains (refer to section 3.2.5);
•
Endurance Groups (refer to section 3.2.3);
•
Reclaim Groups and Reclaim Units (refer to section 3.2.4);
•
NVM Sets (refer to section 3.2.2); and
•
Namespaces (refer to section 3.2.1).
As illustrated in this section:
•
each domain is contained in a single NVM subsystem;
•
each Endurance Group is contained in a single domain and may contain either:
o
one or more NVM Sets; or
o
one or more Reclaim Groups;
•
each NVM Set is contained in a single Endurance Group and each namespace is contained in a
single NVM Set. Each Media Unit is contained in a single Endurance Group; and
•
each Reclaim Group is contained in a single Endurance Group, each Reclaim Unit is contained in
a Reclaim Group, and each namespace is contained in an Endurance Group within one or more
Reclaim Units of the Reclaim Groups in that Endurance Group.
Each Endurance Group is composed of storage media, which are termed Media Units (refer to section
8.1.4.2) or Reclaim Units (refer to section 3.2.4). Reclaim Unit Handles reference a Reclaim Unit in each
Reclaim group for writing user data. For clarity, Media Units, Reclaim Unit Handles, and Reclaim Units are
not shown in the examples in this section that follow.
Figure 11 shows the hierarchical relationships of these entities within a simple NVM subsystem, which has:
•
one domain;
•
one Endurance Group;
•
one NVM Set; and
•
one namespace.
Figure 12 shows the hierarchical relationships in a simple NVM subsystem, which has:
•
one domain;
•
one Endurance Group;
•
one Reclaim Group; and
•
one namespace with user data written to the single Reclaim Group.
The placement (i.e., which Reclaim Group) of user data for a namespace is directed by each host write
command to that namespace (refer to section 8.1.11).
Figure 13 shows the hierarchical relationships in a simple NVM subsystem, which has:
•
one domain;
•
one Endurance Group;
•
four Reclaim Groups; and
•
one namespace with user data written to each Reclaim Group.
The placement (i.e., which Reclaim Group) of user data for a namespace is directed by each host write
command to that namespace (refer to section 8.1.11).
•
multiple domains;
•
multiple Endurance Groups per domain;
•
multiple NVM Sets per Endurance Group; and
•
multiple namespaces per NVM Set.
Entity naming key (Abc):
A:
Domain (capital letter)
b:
Endurance Group (digit)
c:
NVM Set (lower case letter)
Figure 15 shows the relationships in a complex NVM subsystem, which has:
•
multiple domains;
•
multiple Endurance Groups per domain;
•
multiple Reclaim Groups per Endurance Group; and
•
multiple namespaces per Endurance Group.
The placement (i.e., which Reclaim Group) of user data for a namespace is directed by each host write
command to that namespace (refer to section 8.1.11).
Entity naming key (Abc):
A:
Domain (capital letter)
b:
Endurance Group (digit)
c:
Reclaim Group (digit or lower-case letter for maximum number)
The support of Endurance Groups, Reclaim Groups within an Endurance Group, or NVM Sets within an
Endurance Group is optional, but the storage model supports these concepts. An NVM subsystem may be
shipped by the vendor with storage entities configured, or an NVM subsystem may be configured or re-
configured by the customer. Typical changes to the configuration are creation and deletion of namespaces.
An NVM subsystem that does not support multiple NVM Sets does not require reporting of NVM Sets. An
NVM subsystem that does not support multiple Endurance Groups does not require reporting of Endurance
Groups.
