##### 3.3.2.3 Queue Initialization and Queue State

> **Section ID**: 3.3.2.3 | **Page**: 119-120

When a Connect command successfully completes, the corresponding Admin Submission and Completion
Queue or I/O Submission and Completion Queues are created. If the host sends a Connect command
specifying the Queue ID of a queue which already exists, then the controller shall abort the command with
a status code of Command Sequence Error.
The Authentication Requirements (AUTHREQ) field in the Connect response indicates if NVMe in-band
authentication is required. If AUTHREQ is cleared to 0h, the created queue is ready for use after the
Connect command completes successfully. If AUTHREQ is set to a non-zero value, the created queue is
ready for use after NVMe in-band authentication has been performed successfully using the Authentication
Send and Authentication Receive Fabrics commands.
If a controller requires or is undergoing NVMe in-band authentication for a queue pair, then a controller
shall abort all commands received on that queue other than authentication commands with a status code
of Authentication Required. After the NVMe in-band authentication has been performed successfully on a
queue, then a controller shall abort all authentication commands on that queue with a status code of
Command Sequence Error.
When an Admin Queue is first created, the associated controller is disabled (i.e., CC.EN is initialized to ‘0’).
A disabled controller shall abort all commands other than Fabrics commands on the Admin Queue with a
status code of Command Sequence Error. While a controller is enabled, that controller shall accept all
supported Admin commands in addition to Fabrics commands.
A created I/O queue shall abort all commands with a status code of Command Sequence Error if the
associated controller is disabled.
