#### 3.5.3 Controller Ready Modes During Initialization

> **Section ID**: 3.5.3 | **Page**: 132-134

There are two controller ready modes:
•
Controller Ready With Media: By the time the controller becomes ready (i.e., by the time that
CSTS.RDY transitions from ‘0’ to ‘1’) after the controller is enabled (i.e., CC.EN transitions from ‘0’
to ‘1’), then:
a) the controller shall be able to process all commands without error as described in section
3.5.4.1; and
b) all namespaces attached to the controller and all media required to process Admin
commands shall be ready (i.e., commands are not permitted to be aborted with a status
code of Namespace Not Ready with the Do Not Retry bit cleared to ‘0’ or Admin Command
Media Not Ready with the Do Not Retry bit cleared to ‘0’).
•
Controller Ready Independent of Media: After the controller is enabled, all namespaces attached
to the controller and media required to process Admin commands may or may not become ready
by the time the controller becomes ready. Any Admin command or I/O command that specifies one
or more namespaces attached to the controller is permitted to be aborted with a status code of
Namespace Not Ready with the Do Not Retry bit cleared to ‘0’ until CRTO.CRWMT amount of time
after the controller is enabled.
Admin commands that require access to the media are permitted to be aborted with a status code
of Admin Command Media Not Ready with the Do Not Retry bit cleared to ‘0’ until CRTO.CRWMT
amount of time after the controller is enabled. Refer to Figure 84 for a list of Admin commands that
are permitted to be aborted with a status code of Admin Command Media Not Ready.
The controller shall be able to process without error as described in section 3.5.4.1:
a) all Admin commands not listed in Figure 84 by the time the controller is ready;
b) all Admin commands listed in Figure 84 no later than CRTO.CRWMT amount of time after
the controller is enabled; and
c) all I/O commands no later than CRTO.CRWMT amount of time after the controller is
enabled.
The Controller Ready Modes Supported (CAP.CRMS) field (refer to Figure 36) indicates which controller
ready modes are supported. The CAP.CRMS field consists of two bits:
•
the Controller Ready With Media Support (CAP.CRMS.CRWMS) bit; and
•
the Controller Ready Independent of Media Support (CAP.CRMS.CRIMS) bit.
Controllers shall set the CAP.CRMS.CRWMS bit to ‘1’ (i.e., set the CAP.CRMS field to 01b or 11b). The
CAP.CRMS.CRWMS bit was not defined prior to NVM Express Base Specification, Revision 2.0.
Controllers compliant with revisions earlier than NVM Express Base Specification, Revision 2.0 may clear
the CAP.CRMS field to 00b.
The Controller Ready Independent of Media Enable (CC.CRIME) bit (refer to Figure 41) controls the
controller ready mode based on the value of the CAP.CRMS field as follows:
a) If the CAP.CRMS field is cleared to 00b, the controller ready mode is not able to be selected. In
this case, the read-only CC.CRIME bit shall be cleared to ‘0’ and should be ignored by a host;
b) If the CAP.CRMS field is set to 01b (i.e., the CAP.CRMS.CRIMS bit is cleared to ‘0’ and the
CAP.CRMS.CRWMS bit is set to ‘1’), then the controller is in Controller Ready With Media mode
and the read-only CC.CRIME bit shall be cleared to ‘0’; and
c) If the CAP.CRMS field is set to 11b, then both controller ready modes are supported, and the host
may select the controller ready mode by modifying the value of the CC.CRIME bit. In this situation,
the host should set the controller ready mode by writing to the CC.CRIME bit before the controller
is enabled (e.g., as part of the initialization sequence of actions described in section 3.5).


---
### 🖼️ Figures (1)

#### Figure 1: Figure 84: Admin Commands Permitted to Return a Status Code of Admin Command Media Not
Ready
![Figure 84: Admin Commands Permitted to Return a Status Code of Admin Command Media Not
Ready](../section_images/Figure_3_5_3_Controller_Ready_Modes_During_Initialization.png)

