##### 3.7.1.2 Multiple Domain NVM Subsystems

> **Section ID**: 3.7.1.2 | **Page**: 143-144

The scope of an NVM Subsystem Reset depends on whether the NVM subsystem supports multiple
domains. In an NVM subsystem that supports multiple domains, the scope of the NVM Subsystem Reset
is either the controllers that are in a domain or the entire NVM subsystem.
An NVM Subsystem Reset on a domain is initiated when:
•
Power is applied to that domain;
•
A value of 4E564D65h (i.e., “NVMe”) is written to the NSSR.NSSRC field of one of the controllers
in that domain; or
•
A vendor specific event occurs within that domain.
When an NVM Subsystem Reset occurs the entire domain is reset. This includes the initiation of a Controller
Level Reset on all controllers that are in the domain, disabling of the Persistent Memory Region associated
with all controllers that are in the domain, and any transport specific actions defined in the applicable NVM
Express Transport specification.
Alternatively, an NVM Subsystem Reset in an NVM subsystem that supports multiple domains may reset
the entire NVM subsystem.
The occurrence of an NVM Subsystem Reset while power is applied to the domain is reported by the initial
value of the CSTS.NSSRO field following the NVM Subsystem Reset. This field may be used by a host to
determine if the sudden loss of communication with a controller was due to an NVM Subsystem Reset or
some other condition.
The ability for a host to initiate an NVM Subsystem Reset by writing to the NSSR.NSSRC field is an optional
capability of a controller indicated by the state of the CAP.NSSRS field. An implementation may protect the
domain from an inadvertent NVM Subsystem Reset by not providing this capability to one or more
controllers that are in the domain.
