##### 3.9.4.2 Traffic Based Keep Alive on the Host

> **Section ID**: 3.9.4.2 | **Page**: 154-155

The host is able to use Traffic Based Keep Alive only if the controller is also using Traffic Based Keep Alive.
The host should not use Traffic Based Keep Alive if the controller is not using Traffic Based Keep Alive
because a controller that uses Command Based Keep Alive detects a Keep Alive Timeout based on the
absence of Keep Alive commands, not the absence of all commands.
Traffic Based Keep Alive on the host is the same as Command Based Keep Alive on the host (refer to
section 3.9.3.2), with two exceptions:
•
The host is not required to submit a Keep Alive command if the host submitted an Admin command
or I/O command and the host processed the completion for that command since the most recent
time the host checked whether sending a Keep Alive command was necessary.
•
To prevent the controller from detecting a Keep Alive Timeout during the use of Traffic Based Keep
Alive on the host, the host should check for sending a Keep Alive command at a rate of KATT/4,
instead of sending a Keep Alive command at a rate of KATT/2, while the Keep Alive Timer is active
on the controller.
Like Command Based Keep Alive, if the host receives a successful completion to a Set Features command
for the Keep Alive feature, then the host should adjust the time at which the host checks for sending the
next Keep Alive command because the controller restarted the Keep Alive Timer.
If a host detects a Keep Alive Timeout and has outstanding commands for which that host has not received
completions (refer to section 3.4.5), then it is strongly recommended that the host take the steps described
in section 9.6 to avoid possible data corruption caused by interaction between outstanding commands and
subsequent commands submitted by that host to another controller.
For an example host implementation of Traffic Based Keep Alive, the host maintains a Keep Alive Send
Timer for each controller to which that host is connected. The host uses the Keep Alive Send Timer to track
when the host checks for sending a Keep Alive command to the corresponding controller. The host does
not know when the controller fetches the Keep Alive command. Conservatively, the host assumes the
controller fetches the Keep Alive command immediately upon the host sending the Keep Alive command.
Whether or not the host sends a Keep Alive command after the Keep Alive Send Timer expires, the host
tracks this time as the last expired timestamp of the Keep Alive Send Timer, for use when starting or
restarting the Keep Alive Send Timer. While the host does restart the Keep Alive Send Timer after a
successful Set Features command for the KATO feature, the host does not change the last expired
timestamp when sending that Set Features command because at that point in time the host does not know
the results of that command.
This example host implementation of Traffic Based Keep Alive behaves as follows:
•
The host enables the Keep Alive Send Timer if the host requests activation of the Keep Alive Timer
on the controller (e.g., the host enables the controller (refer to section 3.9.2)). The host records the
current time as the last expired timestamp when the Keep Alive Send Timer becomes enabled.
•
The host disables the Keep Alive Send Timer if the host requests deactivation of the Keep Alive
Timer on the controller and the host receives a successful response from the controller (e.g., the
host disables the controller (refer to section 3.9.2)).
•
The host starts a Keep Alive Send Timer if:
the Keep Alive Send Timer becomes enabled; or
a successful Keep Alive command completion is processed by the host.
•
The host restarts a Keep Alive Send Timer if:
the Keep Alive Send Timer is enabled;
a Keep Alive command is not outstanding; and
a successful Set Features command completion is processed by the host where the
command specified the Keep Alive Timer feature (i.e., Feature Identifier 0Fh) and a non-
zero KATO field.
•
If a Keep Alive Send Timer starts or restarts, the host sets the Keep Alive Send Timer to:
KATT/4 minus the time elapsed since the last expired timestamp; or
zero, if the time elapsed since the last expired timestamp is greater than KATT/4.
•
The host stops a Keep Alive Send Timer if the Keep Alive Send Timer becomes disabled
•
If a Keep Alive Send Timer expires, (i.e., the Keep Alive Send Timer is still enabled and time has
elapsed equal to the value to which the Keep Alive Send Timer was set since the host most recently
started or restarted the Keep Alive Send Timer), then the host records the current time as the last
expired timestamp and the host either:
starts a new Keep Alive Send Timer, if at least one Admin command or I/O command was
submitted to the controller and the completion of that command was processed by the host
since the last Keep Alive Send Timer started (not restarted); or
sends a Keep Alive command.
•
The host detects a Keep Alive Timeout if the host sends a Keep Alive command and does not
receive a completion for that Keep Alive command before KATT elapses from when the Keep Alive
command was submitted.
