### 4.7 NVMe Qualified Names

> **Section ID**: 4.7 | **Page**: 191-192

NVMe Qualified Names (NQNs) are used to uniquely describe a host or NVM subsystem for the purposes
of identification and authentication. The NVMe Qualified Name for the NVM subsystem is specified in the
Identify Controller data structure. An NQN is permanent for the lifetime of the host or NVM subsystem.
An NVMe Qualified Name is encoded as a UTF-8 string of Unicode characters (refer to section 1.4.2) with
the following properties:
•
The encoding is UTF-8 (refer to RFC 3629);
•
The following characters are used in formatting:
o
dash (‘-‘=U+002d);
o
dot (‘.’=U+002e); and
o
colon (‘:’=U+003a);
•
The maximum name is 223 bytes in length; and
•
The string is null terminated.
There are two supported NQN formats. The first format may be used by any organization that owns a
domain name. This naming format may be used to create a human interpretable string to describe the host
or NVM subsystem. This format consists of:
•
The string “nqn”;
•
The string “.” (i.e., the ASCII period character);
•
A date code, in “yyyy-mm” format. This date shall be during a time interval when the naming
authority owned the domain name used in this format. The date code uses the Gregorian calendar.
All digits and the dash shall be included;
•
The string “.” (i.e., the ASCII period character);
•
The reverse domain name of the naming authority that is creating the NQN; and
•
A colon (:) prefixed string that the owner of the domain name assigns that does not exceed the
maximum length. The naming authority is responsible to ensure that the NQN is worldwide unique.
The reverse domain name in an NQN that uses this format shall not be “org.nvmexpress”.
The following are examples of NVMe Qualified Names that may be generated by “Example NVMe, Inc.”
•
The string “nqn.2014-08.com.example:nvme:nvm-subsystem-sn-d78432”; and
•
The string “nqn.2014-08.com.example:nvme.host.sys.xyz”.
The second format may be used to create a unique identifier when there is not a naming authority or there
is not a requirement for a human interpretable string. This format consists of:
•
The string “nqn”;
•
The string “.” (i.e., the ASCII period character);
•
The string “2014-08.org.nvmexpress:uuid:”; and
•
A 128-bit UUID based on the definition in RFC 9562 represented as a string formatted as
“11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555”.
The following is an example of an NVMe Qualified Name using the UUID-based format:
•
The string “nqn.2014-08.org.nvmexpress:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6”.
NVMe hosts, controllers and NVM subsystems process (e.g., compare for equality) UTF-8 NVMe Qualified
Names without any text processing or text comparison logic that is specific to the Unicode character set or
locale (refer to section 4.8).
