##### 4.7.1.4 Namespace Unique Identifier

> **Section ID**: 4.7.1.4 | **Page**: 193-193

The Identify Namespace data structure (refer to the applicable NVM Express I/O Command Set
specification) contains the IEEE Extended Unique Identifier (EUI64) and the Namespace Globally Unique
Identifier (NGUID) fields. The Namespace Identification Descriptor data structure (refer to Figure 331)
contains the Namespace UUID. EUI64 is an 8-byte EUI-64 identifier (refer to section 4.5.4), NGUID is a 16-
byte identifier based on EUI-64 (refer to section 4.5.5), and Namespace UUID is a 16-byte identifier
described in RFC 9562 (refer to section 4.5.6).
When creating a namespace, the controller shall indicate a globally unique namespace identifier in one or
more of the following:
a) the EUI64 field;
b) the NGUID field; or
c) a Namespace Identification Descriptor with the Namespace Identifier Type field set to 3h (i.e., a
UUID).
Refer to section 8.1.10.2 for additional globally unique namespace identifier requirements related to
dispersed namespaces.
If the EUI64 field is cleared to 0h and the NGUID field is cleared to 0h, then the namespace shall support
a valid Namespace UUID in the Namespace Identification Descriptor data structure.
If the UIDREUSE bit in the NSFEAT field is cleared to ‘0’, then a controller may reuse a non-zero
NGUID/EUI64 value for a new namespace after the original namespace using the value has been deleted.
If the UIDREUSE bit is set to ‘1’, then a controller shall not reuse a non-zero NGUID/EUI64 for a new
namespace after the original namespace using the value has been deleted.
