##### 5.2.3.1 Media Unit Configuration Selection

> **Section ID**: 5.2.3.1 | **Page**: 211-211

If:
a) the Operation field specifies the Select Capacity Configuration operation;
b) the Element Identifier field specifies a Capacity Configuration Descriptor in the Supported Capacity
Configuration List; and
c) the Selected Configuration field of the Media Unit Status log page (refer to Figure 259) is cleared
to 0h,
then the controller shall perform all of the following actions in sequence:
1) Create an Endurance Group for each Endurance Group Configuration Descriptor in the selected
Capacity Configuration Descriptor.
2) Create an NVM Set for each NVM Set Identifier specified in each Endurance Group Configuration
Descriptor, if any.
If the Operation field specifies the Select Capacity Configuration operation and the Element Identifier field
is cleared to ‘0’, then the controller shall clear the configuration by performing all of the following actions in
sequence:
1) Delete all namespaces in the domain that contains the controller processing the command, as
described in section 8.1.16.
2) Delete all NVM Sets in the domain that contains the controller processing the command, if any.
3) Delete all Endurance Groups in the domain that contains the controller processing the command.
4) Clear the Selected Configuration field to 0h in the Media Unit Status log page.
If the Operation field specifies the Select Capacity Configuration operation and the Element Identifier field
specifies the value reported in the Selected Configuration field of the Media Unit Status log page (i.e., the
currently-selected configuration), then the controller shall complete the command without error and shall
make no change to the capacity configuration.
If the Operation field specifies the Select Capacity Configuration operation and:
a) the Element Identifier field does not specify either a value of 0h or the Capacity Configuration
Identifier of a Capacity Configuration Descriptor in the Capacity Configuration List; or
b) the Selected Configuration field of the Media Unit Status log page (refer to Figure 259) is not cleared
to 0h,
then the controller shall abort the command with a status code of Invalid Field in Command and no changes
shall be made to the configuration of any Media Unit.
