###### 5.2.13.2.5 I/O Command Set specific Identify Namespace data structure (CNS 05h)

> **Section ID**: 5.2.13.2.5 | **Page**: 383-384

An I/O Command Set specific Identify Namespace data structure (refer to the applicable NVM Express I/O
Command Set specification) is returned to the host for the specified namespace if the value in the
Namespace Identifier (NSID) field is an active NSID. If the value in the NSID field specifies an inactive
NSID, then the controller returns a zero filled data structure.
The specific Identify Namespace data structure that is returned by this command is specified by the
Command Set Identifier (CSI) field (refer to Figure 327). If the I/O Command Set associated with the
specified namespace does not support the Identify Namespace data structure specified by the CSI field,
then the controller shall abort the command with a status code of Invalid Field in Command.
Each I/O Command Set specific Identify Namespace data structure specifies fields that define capabilities
used by a host to format or create a namespace. If the NSID field is set to FFFFFFFFh, then the controller
shall return an I/O Command Set specific Identify Namespace data structure for the I/O Command Set
specified in the CSI field (refer to Figure 327) that has:
•
the capability fields as specified by the I/O Command Set specific Identify Namespace data
structure that requires a value that is the same value for all namespaces formatted using the User
Data Formats associated with the Number of LBA Formats field; and
•
fields that are not capability fields set to the value 0h.
If the controller supports the Namespace Management capability (refer to section 8.1.16) and the NSID
field is set to FFFFFFFFh, then the controller shall return an I/O Command Set specific Identify Namespace
data structure for the I/O Command Set specified in the CSI field.
If the controller does not support the Namespace Management capability and the NSID field is set to
FFFFFFFFh, then the controller may abort the command with a status code of Invalid Namespace or
Format.
