###### 5.2.26.1.3 Temperature Threshold (Feature Identifier 04h)

> **Section ID**: 5.2.26.1.3 | **Page**: 426-427

This Feature allows the host to configure temperature thresholds. The attributes are specified in Command
Dword 11 (refer to Figure 407).
A controller may report up to nine temperature values in the SMART / Health Information log page (i.e., the
Composite Temperature and Temperature Sensor 1 through Temperature Sensor 8; refer to Figure 210).
Associated with each implemented temperature sensor is an over temperature threshold and an under
temperature threshold. When a temperature is greater than or equal to its corresponding over temperature
threshold or less than or equal to its corresponding under temperature threshold, then the Temperature
Threshold Condition (TTC) bit is set to ‘1’ of the Critical Warning field in the SMART / Health Information
log page (refer to section 5.2.12.1.3). This may trigger an asynchronous event.
The over temperature threshold feature shall be implemented for Composite Temperature. The under
temperature threshold Feature shall be implemented for Composite Temperature if a non-zero Warning
Composite Temperature Threshold (WCTEMP) field value is reported in the Identify Controller data
structure (refer to Figure 328). The over temperature threshold and under temperature threshold features
shall be implemented for all implemented temperature sensors (i.e., all Temperature Sensor fields that
report a non-zero value).
The default value of the over temperature threshold feature for Composite Temperature is the value in the
WCTEMP field in the Identify Controller data structure if the value of the WCTEMP field is non-zero;
otherwise, the default value is implementation specific. The default value of the under temperature threshold
feature for Composite Temperature is implementation specific. The default value of the over temperature
threshold for all implemented temperature sensors is FFFFh. The default value of the under temperature
threshold for all implemented temperature sensors is 0h.
If a Get Features command is submitted for this Feature, the temperature threshold selected by Command
Dword 11 is returned in Dword 0 of the completion queue entry for that command.
