##### 8.1.3.3 Boot Partition Write Protection

> **Section ID**: 8.1.3.3 | **Page**: 549-550

A controller that supports both Boot Partitions and RPMB shall support at least one of the following Boot
Partition write protection mechanisms:
•
Set Features Boot Partition Write Protection (refer to section 8.1.3.3.1); or
•
RPMB Boot Partition Write Protection (refer to section 8.1.3.3.2).
It is not recommended that a controller support both Set Features Boot Partition Write Protection and RPMB
Boot Partition Write Protection.
A controller that supports Boot Partitions and does not support RPMB shall support Set Features Boot
Partition Write Protection.
A host is able to determine whether Set Features Boot Partition Write Protection is supported by checking
the value of the Set Features Boot Partition Write Protection Support bit of the Boot Partition Capabilities
field in the Identify Controller Data Structure (refer to Figure 328).
A host is able to determine whether RPMB Boot Partition Write Protection is supported by checking the
RPMB Boot Partition Write Protection Support field of the Boot Partition Capabilities field in the Identify
Controller data structure (refer to Figure 328). Only controllers compliant with NVM Express Base
Specification, Revision 2.0 and earlier are allowed to report a value of 00b (i.e., support not specified) in
that field. If a controller reports the 00b value, a host is able to determine if RPMB Boot Partition Write
Protection is supported by checking whether the controller supports both Boot Partitions (refer to section
3.1.4.1) and RPMB (refer to section 5.2.13.2.1) because a controller compliant with NVM Express Base
Specification, Revision 2.0 and earlier is required to support RPMB Boot Partition Write Protection when
the controller supports both Boot Partitions and RPMB.
If Set Features Boot Partition Write Protection is supported and either:
then the Boot Partition write protection states are able to be configured via the Boot Partition Write
Protection Config feature. Section 8.1.3.3.1 covers the case when only the Boot Partition Write Protection
Config feature is supported.
If RPMB Boot Partition Write Protection is supported and enabled, then the Boot Partition write protection
states are able to be configured using RPMB (refer to section 8.1.23). Section 8.1.3.3.2 covers the case
where only RPMB Boot Partition Write Protection is supported.
Only one mechanism controls the Boot Partition write protection states at a time. Section 8.1.3.3.3 covers
considerations when both Boot Partition write protection mechanisms are supported.
If any Boot Partition is shared across multiple controllers (refer to section 8.1.3), then the write protection
state of the Boot Partition shall be enforced by all controllers that share that Boot Partition.
