###### 8.1.6.1.2 Configurable Device Personality Changes (Informative)

> **Section ID**: 8.1.6.1.2 | **Page**: 562-562

This section shows examples of the usage of the Configurable Device Personality capability by a host.
The host is able to change the NVM subsystem personality using the following process:
1. Validate that the Configurable Device Personality capability is supported by issuing a Get Log Page
command to the Feature Identifiers Supported and Effects log page and checking that the
Configurable Device Personality Feature ID and is supported.
2. Submit a Get Log Page command specifying the Device Personalities log page (refer to section
5.2.12.1.28) to determine which personalities are supported.
3. The host determines the settings of the personalities that need to be changed and the required new
settings values for each personality.
4. Ensure that all requirements to change the settings of that personality are met (refer to section
5.2.26.1.24).
5. Submit a Set Features command specifying the Configurable Device Personality feature, the
Change Personality Settings (CHPS) bit set to ‘1’, and that personality. If that Set Features
command is processed successfully, then the change to the settings of the specified personality
take effect in the NVM subsystem:
a. before the successful completion of the Set Features command that requested that change if
the personality does not require a reset; or
b. prior to the successful completion of one of the resets required by that personality on the
controller that processed the command, if the personality requires a reset.
A host is able to unfreeze a personality if an authenticated unfreeze method is supported for that personality
as described in section 8.1.6.2. A frozen personality that does not support an authentication method is not
able to be unfrozen.
