#### 8.1.8 Device Self-test Operations

> **Section ID**: 8.1.8 | **Page**: 573-574

A device self-test operation is a diagnostic testing sequence that tests the integrity and functionality of the
controller and may include testing of the media associated with namespaces or refresh operations. The
operation is broken down into a series of segments, where each segment is a set of vendor specific tests
or refresh operations. The segment number in the Self-test Result data structure (refer to section 5.2.12.1.7)
is used for reporting purposes to indicate where a test failed, if any. The test performed in each segment
may be the same for the short device self-test operation and the extended device self-test operation.
A device self-test operation is performed in the background allowing concurrent processing of some
commands and requiring suspension of the device self-test operation to process other commands. Which
commands may be processed concurrently versus require suspension of the device self-test operation is
vendor specific.
If the controller receives any command that requires suspension of the device self-test operation to process
and complete, then the controller shall:
During a device self-test operation, the performance of the NVM subsystem may be degraded (e.g.,
controllers not performing the device self-test operation may also experience degraded performance).
The following device self-test operations are defined:
a) short device self-test operation (refer to section 8.1.8.1);
b) extended device self-test operation (refer to section 8.1.8.2); and
c) Host-Initiated Refresh operation (refer to section 8.1.12).
Figure 643 is an informative example of a device self-test operation with the associated segments and tests
performed in each segment.


---
### 🖼️ Figures (1)

#### Figure 1: Figure 643 is an informative example of a device self-test operation with the associated segments and tests
performed in each segment.
![Figure 643 is an informative example of a device self-test operation with the associated segments and tests
performed in each segment.](../section_images/Figure_8_1_8_Device_Self_test_Operations.png)

