#### 8.1.10 Dispersed Namespaces

> **Section ID**: 8.1.10 | **Page**: 586-589

Dispersed namespaces provide hosts with access to the same namespace using multiple participating NVM
subsystems. A typical Dispersed Namespace implementation uses Fabrics based NVM subsystems. Two
prominent scenarios that require namespace access from multiple participating NVM subsystems are:
Online data migration is used to transparently move the contents of one or more namespaces across
participating NVM subsystems without disrupting host access to those namespaces during the migration.
For each namespace whose contents are migrated, one or more paths to the namespace in the destination
NVM subsystem are added to the multi-path I/O on the host, in addition to the existing paths to the
namespace in the source NVM subsystem. Once the online data migration completes (i.e., all of the
contents of all namespaces being migrated has been successfully migrated from the source NVM
subsystem to the destination NVM subsystem), all of the paths to the namespace in the source NVM
subsystem are subsequently removed from the multi-path I/O on the host. During the online data migration,
the host and participating NVM subsystems must manage the paths so that there is no interruption to I/O.
Figure 659 shows an example of online data migration, where the contents of namespace B are migrated
from one participating NVM subsystem to another participating NVM subsystem. In this figure, the lines
from the host to the NVMe controllers may represent multiple connections from the host to multiple
controllers in each participating NVM subsystem.
Data replication is used to replicate the contents of one or more dispersed namespaces across participating
NVM subsystems such that each participating NVM subsystem is able to provide host access to the same
namespace data. Other behavior (e.g., persistent reservations) must also be maintained between hosts
and each participating NVM subsystem. Figure 660, Figure 661, and Figure 662 show different examples
of data replication, where the contents of namespace B are replicated across two participating NVM
subsystems. In these figures, the lines from hosts to NVMe controllers may represent multiple connections
from the hosts to multiple controllers in each participating NVM subsystem. Figure 660 shows an example
of single NVM subsystem host connectivity, where two hosts access the same dispersed namespace being
replicated across two participating NVM subsystems via controllers in only one NVM subsystem.
