##### 8.1.16.3 Namespace Management Considerations for Exported NVM Subsystems (informative)

> **Section ID**: 8.1.16.3 | **Page**: 608-608

A host is able to determine whether an Exported NVM Subsystem supports the Namespace Attachment
command by reading the Commands Supported and Effects log page (refer to section 5.2.12.1.6). The
Namespace Attachment command is used to attach namespaces to controllers and detach namespaces
from controllers. The Namespace Management command is not supported by controllers in an Exported
NVM subsystem.
If an Exported Namespace is detached from a controller in the Exported NVM Subsystem, then the NSID
that referred to that namespace becomes an inactive NSID (refer to section 3.2.1.4) on that controller. If an
Underlying Namespace is disassociated from the Exported NVM Subsystem (refer to section 5.4.8.1.2),
then the NSID of the Exported Namespace that referred to that namespace becomes an unallocated NSID
(refer to section 3.2.1.3) and is not available to any controller in the Exported NVM Subsystem. Previously
submitted but uncompleted or subsequently submitted commands to the namespace that is:
•
detached from a controller; or
•
disassociated from the Exported NVM Subsystem,
are handled by the controller as if they were issued to an inactive NSID (refer to section 3.2.1.4 and Figure
92). Refer to section 8.1.16 for Host actions to attach or detach a specified Namespace.
If an Exported NVM Subsystem Exports an Underlying Namespace that becomes unavailable (e.g.,
detached or deleted) or is affected by a Capacity Management command (e.g., Endurance Group deletion,
NVM Set deletion (refer to section 8.1.4)) then:
•
Previously submitted but uncompleted or subsequently submitted commands to the Exported
Namespace are handled by the controller as if they were issued to an inactive NSID (refer to section
3.2.1.4 and Figure 92); and
•
If Allocated Namespace Attribute Notices are enabled, then controllers affected by Underlying
Namespace changes report an Allocated Namespace Attribute Changed asynchronous event to
the host as described in Figure 154.
