##### 8.1.18.1 Non-Operational Power States

> **Section ID**: 8.1.18.1 | **Page**: 612-613

A power state may be a non-operational power state, as indicated by Non-Operational State (NOPS) field
in Figure 329. Non-operational power states allow the following operations:
•
property accesses;
•
PMR accesses, if any;
•
CMB accesses, if any;
•
processing of Admin commands and processing background operations, if any, initiated by that
command (e.g., Device Self-test command (refer to section 5.2.5), Sanitize command (refer to
section 5.2.22)); and
•
additional transport-specific accesses as defined in the applicable NVMe Transport binding
specification.
For the operations listed in the preceding paragraph, the controller:
•
may exceed the power advertised by the non-operational power state;
•
shall logically remain in the current non-operational power state unless an I/O command is received
or if an explicit transition is requested by a Set Features command with the Power Management
Feature Identifier; and
•
shall not exceed the maximum power advertised for the most recent operational power state.
HMB non-operational power state access restriction (refer to section 5.2.26.2.4) does not prohibit the
controller from accessing the HMB while processing Admin commands and while performing host-initiated
background operations initiated by Admin commands. HMB non-operational power state access restriction
does prohibit the controller from accessing the HMB in order to perform controller-initiated activity (i.e.,
activity not directly associated with a command).
Execution of controller-initiated background operations may exceed the power advertised by the non-
operational power state, if the Non-Operational Power State Permissive Mode is supported and enabled
(refer to section 5.2.26.1.10).
No I/O commands are processed by the controller while in a non-operational power state. The host should
wait until there are no pending I/O commands prior to issuing a Set Features command to change the
current power state of the device to a non-operational power state and not submit new I/O commands until
the Set Features command completes. Issuing an I/O command in parallel may result in the controller being
in an unexpected power state.
When in a non-operational power state, regardless of whether autonomous power state transitions are
enabled, the controller shall autonomously transition back to the most recent operational power state to
process an I/O command.
