##### 8.1.20.2 Configuring Periodic Windows

> **Section ID**: 8.1.20.2 | **Page**: 628-629

When using the NVM Set in Predictable Latency Mode, the host should transition the controller to NDWIN
for periodic maintenance. The maintenance is required in order for the NVM subsystem to reliably provide
the amount of time indicated for Deterministic Windows.
There are three static time based parameters reported in the Predictable Latency Per NVM Set log page
(refer to section 5.2.12.1.11) that may be used by the host to configure periodic windows. The values
provided are worst-case for the life of the NVM subsystem:
•
NDWIN Time Minimum Low is the minimum time that the NVM Set remains in the Non-Deterministic
Window. The controller may delay completion of a Set Features command requesting a transition
to the Deterministic Window until this time is completed. This time does not account for additional
host activity in the Non-Deterministic Window;
•
NDWIN Time Minimum High is the minimum time that the host should allow the NVM Set to remain
in the Non-Deterministic Window after the NVM Set remained in the previous Deterministic Window
for DTWIN Time Maximum. This time does not account for additional host activity in the Non-
Deterministic Window; and
•
DTWIN Time Maximum is the maximum time that the NVM Set is able to stay in a Deterministic
Window.
The DTWIN Time Maximum and NDWIN Time Minimum High may provide a ratio of the amount of
maintenance that needs to be performed based on the time that the NVM Set remains in the DTWIN,
assuming no threshold is exceeded. Any scaling of the time in the Non-Deterministic Window based on the
read, write, and time behavior in the previous Deterministic Window is implementation dependent.
The DTWIN Time Estimate may be used by the host when a Deterministic Excursion has occurred. This
estimate allows the host to re-synchronize an NVM Set with other NVM Sets operating in Predictable
Latency Mode, if applicable.
