##### 8.1.20.3 Configuring and Managing Events

> **Section ID**: 8.1.20.3 | **Page**: 629-629

The host may configure events to be triggered when thresholds do not exceed certain levels or when
autonomous transitions occur using the Predictable Latency Mode Feature. The host submits a Set Feature
command for the particular NVM Set and configures the specific event(s) and threshold(s) values that shall
trigger a Predictable Latency Event Aggregate Log Change Notice event for that particular NVM Set to the
host. Refer to Figure 423.
The host determines the NVM Sets that have outstanding events by reading the Predictable Latency Event
Aggregate log page (refer to section 5.2.12.1.12). An entry is returned for each NVM Set that has an event
outstanding. The host may use the NVM Set Identifier Maximum value reported in the Identify Controller
data structure in order to determine the maximum size of this log page.
To determine the specific event(s) that have occurred for a reported NVM Sets, the host reads the
Predictable Latency Per NVM Set log page (refer to section 5.2.12.1.11) for that NVM Set. The Event Type
field indicates the event(s) that have occurred (e.g., an autonomous transition to the NDWIN). An event(s)
for a particular NVM Set is cleared if the controller successfully processes a read for the Predictable Latency
Per NVM Set log page for the affected NVM Set where the Get Log Page command has the Retain
Asynchronous Event parameter cleared to ‘0’. If the Event Type field in the Predictable Latency Per NVM
Set log page is cleared to 0h, then events for that particular NVM Set are not reported in the Predictable
Latency Event Aggregate log page.
