##### 8.1.24.4 Unregistering

> **Section ID**: 8.1.24.4 | **Page**: 649-650

A host that is a registrant of a namespace may unregister with the namespace by executing a Reservation
Register command (refer to section 7.6) on the namespace with the RREGA field set to 001b (i.e.,
Unregister Reservation Key) and supplying its current reservation key in the CRKEY field. If the contents
of the CRKEY field do not match the key currently associated with the host, then the command is aborted
with a status code of Reservation Conflict. If the host is not a registrant, then the command is aborted with
a status code of Reservation Conflict.
Successful completion of an unregister operation causes the host to no longer be a registrant of that
namespace. A host may unregister without regard to its current reservation key value by setting the IEKEY
bit to '1' in the Reservation Register command.
Unregistering by a host may cause a reservation held by the host to be released. If a host is the last
remaining reservation holder (i.e., the reservation type is Write Exclusive - All Registrants or Exclusive
Access - All Registrants) or is the only reservation holder, then the reservation is released when the host
unregisters.
If a reservation is released and the type of the released reservation was Write Exclusive - Registrants Only
or Exclusive Access - Registrants Only, then a reservation released notification occurs on all controllers
associated with a registered host other than the host that issued the Reservation Register command.
