##### 8.1.24.5 Acquiring a Reservation

> **Section ID**: 8.1.24.5 | **Page**: 650-650

In order for a host to obtain a reservation on a namespace, that host shall be a registrant of that namespace.
A registrant obtains a reservation by executing a Reservation Acquire command (refer to section 7.5),
clearing the Reservation Acquire Action (RACQA) field to 000b (Acquire), and supplying the current
reservation key associated with the host in the Current Reservation Key (CRKEY) field. The CRKEY value
shall match that used by the registrant to register with the namespace. If the CRKEY value does not match,
then the command is aborted with a status code of Reservation Conflict. If the host is not a registrant, then
the command is aborted with a status code of Reservation Conflict.
Only one reservation is allowed at a time on a namespace. If a registrant attempts to obtain a reservation
on a namespace that already has a reservation holder, then the command is aborted with a status code of
Reservation Conflict. If a reservation holder attempts to obtain a reservation of a different type on a
namespace for which that host already is the reservation holder, then the command is aborted with a status
code of Reservation Conflict. If a reservation holder attempts to obtain a reservation of the same type on a
namespace for which that host already is the reservation holder, then it is not a Reservation Conflict and
the command is processed. A reservation holder may preempt a reservation to change the reservation type.
