#### 8.1.27 Submission Queue (SQ) Associations

> **Section ID**: 8.1.27 | **Page**: 674-675

When Predictable Latency Mode is enabled, all I/O commands for namespaces in a given NVM Set have
the same quality of service attributes and shall exhibit predictable latencies as described in section 8.1.19.1.
The SQ Associations capability provides hints to the controller as to which specific I/O Queues are
associated with a given NVM Set. The controller uses this information to further enhance performance when
Predictable Latency Mode is enabled.
The SQ Associations capability is an optional capability. Predictable Latency Mode (refer to section
8.1.19.1) is not dependent on the use of the SQ Associations capability.
If a controller supports SQ Associations, then the controller shall:
•
indicate support for the SQ Associations capability in the Controller Attributes (CTRATT) field in
the Identify Controller data structure;
•
indicate support for NVM Sets in the Controller Attributes (CTRATT) field in the Identify Controller
data structure; and
•
indicate support for Predictable Latency Mode in the Controller Attributes (CTRATT) field in the
Identify Controller data structure (refer to Figure 328).
The host enables the SQ Associations capability by creating an association between an NVM Set and a
Submission Queue at the time the Submission Queue is created (e.g., with a Create I/O Submission Queue
command (refer to section 5.3.2) or a Connect command (refer to section 6.3)).
For the SQ Associations capability to yield benefits, the host is required to:
a) create an association between each Submission Queue and some NVM Set; and
b) only issue I/O commands to Submission Queues that have an association with the NVM Set that
contains the namespace associated with the Namespace Identifier specified in that I/O command.
While this capability is enabled, failure to follow the specified operating rules may impact Predictable
Latency (refer to section 8.1.19.1).
