##### 8.3.2.2 Discovery Information Registration and De-Registration

> **Section ID**: 8.3.2.2 | **Page**: 705-706

Discovery information registration is the process of registering host or NVM subsystem discovery
information with a Centralized Discovery controller (CDC) or registering host discovery information with a
Direct Discovery controller (DDC).
Discovery information registration may be performed:
•
using a push registration (refer to section 8.3.2.2.1); or
•
using a pull registration (refer to section 8.3.2.2.21).
Information from a Connect command (e.g., Host NQN) may be retained by a Discovery controller to provide
a limited set of discovery information. If the Discovery controller determines that the host that submitted the
Connect command is the same as a host for which the Discovery controller has retained host discovery
information from a previous push registration, then the Discovery controller should continue to retain that
host discovery information.
A host:
•
should use push registrations to register host discovery information with a CDC or DDC; and
•
is not able to use pull registrations to register discovery information.
A CDC:
•
may use push registrations to register host discovery information with a DDC; and
•
shall not use pull registrations to register discovery information.
A DDC:
•
should use push registrations when registering NVM subsystem discovery information with a CDC;
or
•
may use pull registrations when registering NVM subsystem discovery information with a CDC.
Discovery information de-registration is the process of de-registering host or NVM subsystem discovery
information with a CDC or de-registering host discovery information with a DDC.
Discovery information de-registration may be performed using one of the following methods:
•
a push de-registration (refer to section 8.3.2.2.1); or
•
a pull de-registration (refer to section 8.3.2.2.2).
A host:
•
may use push de-registrations to de-register host discovery information with a CDC or DDC; and
•
is not able to use pull de-registrations to de-register discovery information.
A CDC:
•
may use push de-registrations to de-register host discovery information with a DDC; and
•
shall not use pull de-registrations to de-register discovery information.
A DDC:
•
should use push de-registrations to de-register NVM subsystem discovery information with a CDC;
or
•
may use pull de-registrations to de-register NVM subsystem discovery information with a CDC.
