###### 8.3.4.1.2 Managing Host access to an Exported NVM Subsystem

> **Section ID**: 8.3.4.1.2 | **Page**: 736-737

Exported NVM Subsystems are created with a specified Access Mode (i.e., restricted, unrestricted).
This section describes an example flow for changing an Exported NVM Subsystem configured for
unrestricted access to restricted access (where only hosts in the Allowed Host List associated to the
specified Exported NVM Subsystem have permissions to use the Exported Namespaces linked to that
Exported NVM Subsystem).
The access mode of Exported NVM Subsystems may be changed by issuing a Manage Exported NVM
Subsystem command with a Change Access Mode operation (refer to section 5.4.9.1.2) and specifying the
desired Access Mode (refer to step ‘6’ in Figure 779). The example Figure 779 shows changing the access
mode of an Exported NVM Subsystem to restricted access. The example Figure 779 also shows Exported
NVM Subsystem access to specific hosts (refer to step ‘7’ in Figure 779).
Similarly, hosts may be restricted from access to specified Exported NVM Subsystems configured for
restricted access, on specified ports, by issuing Manage Exported NVM Subsystem commands with the
Revoke Host Access operation (refer to section 5.4.9.1.4). Refer to step ‘8’ in Figure 780).
An example flow for removing an Exported NVM Subsystem and associated Namespaces would be issuing:
1.
a Manage Exported NVM Port command with a Delete operation (refer to section 5.4.10.1.2) for
each port associated with the Exported NVM Subsystem to be removed (refer to step ‘9’ of Figure
781).
2.
a Manage Exported Namespace command with a Disassociate Namespace operation (refer to
section 5.4.8.1.2) for each Exported Namespaces associated with the Exported NVM Subsystem
to be removed (refer to step ‘10’ of Figure 781).
3.
a Manage Exported NVM Subsystem command with a Delete operation (refer to section 5.4.9.1.1)
of a Manage Exported NVM Subsystem command (refer to step ‘11’ of Figure 781).
