### 9.5 Controller Fatal Status Condition

> **Section ID**: 9.5 | **Page**: 766-767

If the controller has a serious error condition and is unable to communicate with the host via completion
queue entries in the Admin Completion Queue or I/O Completion Queues, then the controller may set the
Controller Fatal Status (CSTS.CFS) bit to ‘1’ (refer to section 3.1.4.6). This indicates to the host that a
serious error condition has occurred. When this condition occurs, the host should attempt to reset and then
re-initialize the controller.
The Controller Fatal Status condition is not indicated with an interrupt. If the host experiences timeout
conditions and/or repeated errors, then the host should consult the Controller Fatal Status (CSTS.CFS) bit
to determine if a more serious error has occurred.
If the Controller Fatal Status (CSTS.CFS) bit is set to ‘1’ on any controller in the NVM subsystem, the host
should issue a Controller Reset to that controller.
If the Controller Level Reset initiated by that Controller Reset does not clear the Controller Fatal Status
condition, the host should initiate an NVM Subsystem Reset (refer to section 3.7.1), if supported.
Performing an NVM Subsystem Reset (NSSR) may cause PCI Express links to go down as part of resetting
the NVM subsystem. The host may have undesirable effects related to PCI Express links going down (e.g.,
some host operating systems or hypervisors may crash).
NVM Subsystem Reset should not be used if the host has undesirable effects related to PCI Express links
going down. This host includes, but is not limited to, operating systems using Firmware First Error Handling
(refer to the ACPI Specification). Such operating systems should not use NSSR for recovery from CFS
conditions.
