##### 4.8.10.1 DSSD Power State Requirements

> **Section ID**: 4.8.10.1 | **Page**: 48-49

DSSD power states provide an alternative interface to NVMe power management.  DSSD and NVMe
Power States are numbered in opposite directions – higher numbered DSSD Power States consume more
power than lower numbered DSSD Power States, whereas higher numbered NVMe Power States
consume less power than lower numbered NVMe Power States.
Selecting an DSSD Power State via a Set Features command (see Section 4.12.13 DSSD Power State
(Feature Identifier C7h) Set Feature) causes the device to run at the highest powered NVMe Power State
whose Maximum Power (MP) in watts is less than or equal to the number of the DSSD Power State.
For example, placing the device in DSSD Power State number 20 causes the device to enter the highest
powered NVMe Power State whose Maximum Power (MP) is less than or equal to 20 watts.
In general, a device will have more DSSD Power States than NVMe Power States.  Selecting an DSSD
Power State whose number is not the Maximum Power (MP) in watts of an NVMe Power State causes
the device to drop down to run at the highest powered NVMe Power State whose Maximum Power
(MP) does not exceed the number of the DSSD Power State in watts.
For example, suppose that a device supports NVMe Power State 5 that consumes no more than 20 watts
Maximum Power (MP) and NVMe Power State 6 that consumes no more than 16 watts Maximum
Power (MP).  Selecting DSSD Power State 18 (i.e., 18 watts Maximum Power (MP)) causes the device
to enter NVMe Power State 6 and consume no more than 16 watts Maximum Power (MP).  In this
example the device reports 18 as its DSSD Power State and 6 as its NVMe Power State.  Selecting
NVMe Power State 6 causes the device to report 16 as its DSSD Power State and 6 as its NVMe Power
State.
DSSD Power State 0 does not exist, as a device that is consuming 0 watts Maximum Power (MP) is
powered off.  DSSD Power States that represent a Maximum Power (MP) less than the lowest powered
NVMe Power State are invalid.  The lowest numbered valid DSSD Power State is indicated in DCLP-8.
