##### 3.2.3.1 Configuring and Managing Endurance Group Events

> **Section ID**: 3.2.3.1 | **Page**: 106-107

The host may configure asynchronous events to be triggered when certain events occur for an Endurance
Group. The host submits a Set Features command specifying the Endurance Group Event Configuration
feature (refer to section 5.2.26.1.16), the Endurance Group, and the specific event(s) that shall trigger
adding an entry to the Endurance Group Event Aggregate log page (refer to section 5.2.12.1.15).
The host configures events using a Set Features command for each Endurance Group.
The host submits a Set Features command specifying the Asynchronous Event Configuration feature (refer
to section 5.2.26.1.5) with the Endurance Group Event Aggregate Log Change Notices bit set to ‘1’ to
specify that adding an entry to the Endurance Group Event Aggregate log page shall trigger an Endurance
Group Event Aggregate Log Page Change Notice event to the host (refer to Figure 428).
The host determines the Endurance Groups that have outstanding events by reading the Endurance Group
Event Aggregate log page. An entry is returned for each Endurance Group that has an event outstanding.
The host may use the Endurance Group Identifier Maximum value reported in the Identify Controller data
structure to determine the maximum size of this log page.
To determine the specific event(s) that have occurred for a reported Endurance Group, the host reads the
Endurance Group Information log page (refer to Figure 222) for that Endurance Group. The Critical Warning
field indicates the event(s) that have occurred (e.g., that all namespaces in the Endurance Group have
been placed in read-only mode). All events for an Endurance Group are cleared if the controller successfully
processes a read for the Endurance Group Information log page for that Endurance Group, where the Get
Log Page command has the Retain Asynchronous Event bit cleared to ‘0’. If the Critical Warning field in the
Endurance Group Information log page is cleared to 0h, then events for that Endurance Group are not
reported in the Endurance Group Event Aggregate log page.
