##### 3.3.2.9 Transport Requirements

> **Section ID**: 3.3.2.9 | **Page**: 123-123

This section defines requirements that all NVMe Transports that support an NVMe over Fabrics
implementation shall meet.
The NVMe Transport may support NVMe Transport error detection and report errors to the NVMe layer in
command status values. The controller may record NVMe Transport specific errors in the Error Information
log page (refer to section 5.2.12.1.2). Transport errors that cause loss of a message or loss of data in a
way that the low-level NVMe Transport cannot replay or recover should cause:
•
the deletion of the individual I/O Queues (refer to section 3.3.2.4) and the associated NVMe
Transport connection on which that NVMe Transport level error occurred; or
•
termination of the NVMe Transport connection and the association between the host and controller.
The NVMe Transport shall provide reliable delivery of capsules between a host and NVM subsystem (and
allocated controller) over each connection. The NVMe Transport may deliver command capsules in any
order on each queue except for I/O commands that are part of fused operations (refer to section 3.4.2).
For command capsules that are part of fused operations for I/O commands, the NVMe Transport:
1.
shall deliver the first and second command capsules for each fused operation to the queue in-
order; and
2.
shall not deliver any other command capsule for the same Submission Queue between delivery of
the two command capsules for a fused operation.
The NVMe Transport shall provide reliable delivery of response capsules from an NVMe subsystem to a
host over each connection. The NVMe Transport shall deliver response capsules that include an SQ Head
Pointer (SQHD) value to the host in-order; this includes all Connect response capsules and all Disconnect
response capsules.
