##### 3.7.1.1 Single Domain NVM Subsystems

> **Section ID**: 3.7.1.1 | **Page**: 143-143

The scope of an NVM Subsystem Reset depends on whether the NVM subsystem supports multiple
domains. In an NVM subsystem that does not support multiple domains, the scope of the NVM Subsystem
Reset is the entire NVM subsystem.
An NVM Subsystem Reset is initiated when:
•
Main power is applied to the NVM subsystem;
•
A value of 4E564D65h (“NVMe”) is written to the NSSR.NSSRC field;
•
Requested using a method defined in the NVM Express Management Interface Specification; or
•
A vendor specific event occurs.
When an NVM Subsystem Reset occurs, the entire NVM subsystem is reset. This includes the initiation of
a Controller Level Reset on all controllers that make up the NVM subsystem, disabling of the Persistent
Memory Region associated with all controllers that make up the NVM subsystem, and any transport specific
actions defined in the applicable NVM Express Transport specification.
The occurrence of an NVM Subsystem Reset while power is applied to the NVM subsystem is reported by
the initial value of the CSTS.NSSRO field following the NVM Subsystem Reset. This field may be used by
a host to determine if the sudden loss of communication with a controller was due to an NVM Subsystem
Reset or some other condition.
The ability for a host to initiate an NVM Subsystem Reset by writing to the NSSR.NSSRC field is an optional
capability of a controller indicated by the state of the CAP.NSSRS field. An implementation may protect the
NVM subsystem from an inadvertent NVM Subsystem Reset by not providing this capability to one or more
controllers that make up the NVM subsystem.
The occurrence of a vendor specific event that results in an NVM Subsystem Reset is intended to allow
implementations to recover from a severe NVM subsystem internal error that prevents continued normal
operation (e.g., fatal hardware or firmware error).
