##### 5.2.12.1 Common Log Specific Information

> **Section ID**: 5.2.12.1 | **Page**: 234-234

Refer to section 3.1.3.5 for mandatory, optional, and prohibited log pages for the various controller types.
Log pages that indicate a scope of NVM subsystem return information that is global to the NVM subsystem.
Log pages that indicate a scope of Domain return information that is global to the Domain. Log pages that
indicate a scope of controller return information that is specific to the controller that is processing the
command. Some log pages that contain information about other controllers indicate a scope of controller
(e.g., the Cross-Controller Reset log page, refer to section 5.2.12.3.1) because that information is
maintained by the controller that processes the command and returns the log page. Log pages that indicate
a scope of Namespace return information that is specific to the specified namespace. For log pages that
indicate multiple scopes, support for multiple domains or the namespace identifier that is specified
determines which information is returned. The definition of any individual field within a log page may indicate
a different scope that is specific to that individual field.
For log pages with a scope of NVM subsystem or controller (as shown in Figure 206), the controller shall
abort commands that specify namespace identifiers other than 0h or FFFFFFFFh with a status code of
Invalid Field in Command. Otherwise, the rules for namespace identifier usage in Figure 92 apply.
