##### 8.1.4.2 Fixed Capacity Management

> **Section ID**: 8.1.4.2 | **Page**: 556-557

A Media Unit represents a component of the underlying media in a domain. An implementation may choose
to represent each die as a separate Media Unit; however, this is not required. A Media Unit is the smallest
media component for which the controller reports wear information (refer to the Available Spare field and
the Percentage Used field in the Media Unit Status Descriptor, Figure 260).
Two or more I/O operations to a Media Unit at the same time may interfere with each other as they contend
for resources internal to or shared by that Media Unit.
A controller supporting Fixed Capacity Management:
a) shall support the Media Unit Status log page (refer to section 5.2.12.1.16);
b) shall support Endurance Groups (refer to section 3.2.3);
c) may support NVM Sets (refer to section 3.2.2);
d) shall set the Fixed Capacity Management bit to ‘1’ in the CTRATT field of the Identify Controller
data structure (refer to Figure 328);
e) shall support the Supported Capacity Configuration List log page (refer to section 5.2.12.1.17); and
f)
shall support the Select Capacity Configuration operation of the Capacity Management command
(refer to section 5.2.3).
Media Units are accessed by way of Channels that represent communication pathways that may be a
source of contention. This information is reported to facilitate the composition of NVM Sets that minimize
interference between independent writers competing for this type of resource.
The host allocates the Media Units in a domain to Endurance Groups and NVM Sets by:
1) reading the Supported Capacity Configuration List log page (refer to Figure 261) and selecting the
desired configuration; and
2) issuing a Capacity Management command specifying the Select Capacity Configuration operation
and the Capacity Configuration Identifier of the desired configuration.
Following successful completion of the command, each Media Unit is allocated to one Endurance Group
and to one NVM Set. The resulting configuration of Media Units is reported by the Media Unit Status log
page (refer to section 5.2.12.1.16).
