##### 8.1.10.1 Dispersed Namespace Management

> **Section ID**: 8.1.10.1 | **Page**: 589-589

The Namespace Management command (refer to section 5.2.21) may be used to create a namespace that
is capable of being accessed using controllers contained in two or more participating NVM subsystems
concurrently (i.e., may be used to create a namespace that is capable of being a dispersed namespace).
The methods for dispersing a namespace (e.g., attaching that namespace to controllers contained in
separate participating NVM subsystems) are outside the scope of this specification. The Namespace
Management or Capacity Management command may be used to delete a dispersed namespace on the
participating NVM subsystem containing the controller processing the command. Deleting a dispersed
namespace on one participating NVM subsystem may or may not affect that namespace on other
participating NVM subsystems (e.g., a deletion from one participating NVM subsystem may have no effect
on the namespace on other participating NVM subsystems, or a deletion from one participating NVM
subsystem may delete the namespace from all participating NVM subsystems).
The Namespace Management command may be used to create a shared namespace that is not a
dispersed namespace which is later converted to a dispersed namespace. The method of converting a
namespace that is not a dispersed namespace to a dispersed namespace is outside the scope of this
specification. NVM subsystems should not convert private namespaces to dispersed namespaces.
Whenever a namespace that is not a dispersed namespace is converted to a dispersed namespace or a
dispersed namespace is converted to a namespace that is not a dispersed namespace, the controller
reports an Attached Namespace Attribute Changed event and an Allocated Namespace Attribute Changed
event as described in Figure 154.
The host may attach or detach a dispersed namespace from the controller by using the Namespace
Attachment command (refer to section 5.2.20).
