#### 8.1.15 Management Addresses

> **Section ID**: 8.1.15 | **Page**: 604-605

Various entities on a network are able to request a management agent to perform management operations
on NVM subsystems. A controller in an NVM subsystem use the Management Addresses capability to
indicate the network addresses of those management agents. When an NVM subsystem is provisioned in
a storage system, the management addresses are established in the controller.
Management agents are able to be located in various networked entities, including:
•
NVM subsystems;
•
Fabric interface managers;
•
Embedded management controllers; and
•
A host.
Each management address is represented as a uniform resource indicator (URI; refer to RFC 3986).
The address of a management agent contained in an NVM subsystem (e.g., an Ethernet-attached SSD) is
indicated in the Management Address List log page (refer to section 5.2.12.1.24), in a Management Address
Descriptor indicating a Management Address Type of 1h. The method by which the address is determined
is outside the scope of this specification.
The address of a management agent contained in a fabric interface manager is indicated in the
Management Address List log page (refer to section 5.2.12.1.24), in a Management Address Descriptor
indicating a Management Address Type of 2h. The method by which the address is determined is outside
the scope of this specification.
The address of a management agent contained in an embedded management controller (e.g., a BMC) is
set and retrieved using the Embedded Management Controller Address feature (refer to section
5.2.26.1.24). The Embedded Management Controller Address feature is intended to be set only by the
storage system containing the embedded management controller. The embedded management controller
is able to ensure this by issuing a Lockdown command (refer to section 5.2.15) with the OFI field specifying
this Feature, and the PRHBT bit set to ‘1’ and the IFC field set to Admin Submission Queue (i.e., 00b).
The address of a management agent contained in the host is set and retrieved using the Host Management
Controller Address feature (refer to section 5.2.26.1.29). The Host Management Agent Address feature is
intended to be set only by the host. The host is able to ensure this by issuing a Lockdown command (refer
to section 5.2.15) with the OFI field specifying this Feature, and the PRHBT bit set to ‘1’ and the IFC field
set to Out-of-band on a Management Endpoint (i.e., 10b).
