##### 8.1.18.6 Power Limit

> **Section ID**: 8.1.18.6 | **Page**: 616-617

Controller support for the Power Limit capability is indicated by the Power Limit Support (PLS) bit in the
Controller Attributes (CTRATT) field of the Identify Controller data structure (refer to Figure 328).
The Power Limit capability enables a host to limit the maximum power consumed by the NVM subsystem
by restricting the power states that each controller is permitted to use. The host is able to use the Power
Management capability to configure the power state of a controller and is able to use the Power Limit
capability to prohibit controller power states that allow the NVM subsystem to consume more power than a
power limit that the host specifies.
The host is able to modify the power limit for a controller by using the Set Features command to change
the attributes of the Power Limit feature (refer to section 5.2.26.1.25). The host is able to obtain the current
power limit for a controller by using the Get Features command to read the attributes of that Feature.
The power limit indicated by the Power Limit feature prohibits power states that allow consumption of more
power than the power limit (i.e., power states for which the power consumption allowed by the value of the
MP field in the PSD data structure (refer to Figure 329) is greater than the power limit).
The PSD data structure for a prohibited power state is removed from the Identify Controller data structure.
If a prohibited power state becomes enabled (e.g., as a consequence of removing a power limit), then the
PSD data structure for that power state is restored. In both cases, the power states that are enabled for
use are renumbered so that the power states are contiguously numbered starting with zero with the
maximum power of each subsequent power state being less than or equal to the maximum power of the
previous power state, as described in section 8.1.18.
Power state entries in the Autonomous Power State Transition table are renumbered as a result of the
Power Limit feature changing the PSD table. The Autonomous Power State Transition table is modified to
remove entries for prohibited power states and the Idle Transition Power State field in each remaining entry
to indicate the new number of that power state that resulted from modification of the Power Limit feature.
This feature is used by a host to:
•
establish a power limit or reduce the value of a power limit, each of which may cause the controller
to prohibit power states from use and remove PSD data structures (refer to section 8.1.18.6.1);
•
remove a power limit or increase the value of a power limit, each of which may cause the controller
to restore PSD data structures and enable power states for use (refer to section 8.1.18.6.2); and
•
change the value of a power limit where that change has no effect on either the power states that
are prohibited from use or the power states that are enabled for use (refer to section 8.1.18.6.3).
