#### 8.2.4 Persistent Memory Region

> **Section ID**: 8.2.4 | **Page**: 684-686

The Persistent Memory Region (PMR) is an optional region of general purpose PCI Express read/write
persistent memory that may be used for a variety of purposes. The controller indicates support for the PMR
by setting the CAP.PMRS bit (refer to section 3.1.4.1) to ‘1’ and indicates whether the controller supports
command data and metadata transfers to or from the PMR by setting support flags in the PMRCAP property.
When command data and metadata transfers to or from the PMR are supported, all data and metadata
associated with a particular command shall be either entirely located in the PMR or outside the PMR.
PMR reads and PMR writes are initiated either by PCIe read and write transactions or by a controller
associated with the PMR (i.e., a controller that is able to access the PMR using the controller address range
instead of PCIe, and the controller and the PMR are implemented in the same PCIe function).
PCIe read and write transactions to the PMR use the PCIe address range of the PMR. The PCI Express
address range and size of the PMR is defined by the PCI Base Address Register (BAR) indicated by the
PMRCAP.BIR field. The PMR consumes the entire address region exposed by the BAR and supports all
the required features of the PCI Express programming model (i.e., it in no way restricts what is otherwise
permitted by PCI Express).
The controller uses the controller address range of the PMR to reference the PMR with addresses supplied
by the host. The PCI Express address range and the controller address range of the PMR may differ, but
both ranges have the same size, and equivalent offsets within each range have a one-to-one
correspondence. The host configures the controller address range of the PMR via the PMRMSCU and
PMRMSCL properties.
The host enables the controller memory space of the PMR via the PMRMSCL.CMSE bit. When controller
memory space is enabled, if host supplies an address referencing the controller address range of the PMR,
then the controller directs memory read or write requests for this address to the PMR.
When the controller memory space of the PMR is disabled, the controller does not consider any host-
supplied address to reference the controller address range of the PMR, and memory read and write
requests are directed elsewhere (e.g., to memory other than the PMR).
The contents of data written to the PMR while the PMR is ready persists across power cycles, Controller
Level Resets, and disabling of the PMR. The mechanism used to make a write to the PMR persistent is
implementation specific. For example, in one implementation this may mean that a write to non-volatile
memory has completed while in another implementation this may mean that the write has been stored in a
non-volatile write buffer and is written to non-volatile memory at some later point.
A PMR implementation has a maximum sustained write throughput. The PMR implementation may also
have an optional write elasticity buffer used to buffer writes from PMR PCIe write requests. When the PMR
sustained write throughput is less than the PCI Express link throughput, then such a write elasticity buffer
allows PCIe write request burst throughput to exceed the PMR sustained write throughput without back
pressuring into the PCI Express fabric.
The time required to transfer data from the write elasticity buffer to non-volatile media is the amount of data
written to the elasticity buffer divided by the maximum PMR sustained write throughput (refer to section
3.1.4.26). The time to transfer the entire contents of the write elasticity buffer is the size of the PMR elasticity
buffer (refer to section 3.1.4.25) divided by the maximum PMR sustained write throughput. The host is
required to account for any units differences in the PMR Elasticity Buffer Size Units field and the PMR
Sustained Write Throughput Units field.
The host enables the PMR by setting the PMRCTL.EN bit to ‘1’. Once enabled, the controller indicates that
the PMR is ready by clearing the PMRSTS.NRDY bit to ‘0’. It is not necessary to enable the controller to
enable the PMR. Restoring and saving the contents of the PMR may take time to complete. When the host
modifies the value of the PMRCTL.EN bit, the host should wait for at least the time interval specified in the
PMRCAP.PMRTO field for the PMRSTS.NRDY bit to reflect the change.
When the PMR is not ready:
•
PCIe PMR reads complete successfully and return an undefined value; and
•
PCIe PMR writes complete successfully but do not update memory (i.e., the contents of the PMR
address written remains unchanged).
The undefined value returned by a PCIe PMR read following a sanitize operation is such that recovery of
any previous user data from any cache or the non-volatile storage media is prohibitively difficult (i.e.,
infeasible for a given level of effort (refer to IEEE Std 2883)).
When the PMR becomes read-only or unreliable, then a critical warning is reported in the SMART / Health
Information log page which may be used to trigger an NVMe interface asynchronous event. Since reporting
of an asynchronous event may occur an unspecified amount of time after the PMR health status has
changed, the host should assume that all operations to the PMR have been affected since the last time
normal operation was reported in the PMRSTS.HSTS field.
If a controller processes a command specifying a data buffer in an associated PMR, then that controller
may be able to determine the health of the PMR and to access the PMR via the controller address range
of the PMR. If that command specifies writing data to the PMR (e.g., the NVM Command Set Read
command) and the controller detects that the data was not written (e.g., the Error (ERR) bit was set to ‘1’
in the PMRSTS property), then the controller should abort that command with a status code of Data Transfer
Error.
Successful completion of a command that specifies writing data to any PMR (associated or unassociated)
does not indicate whether data was successfully written to that PMR. For each PMR to which such a
command specifies writing data, the host should determine whether data was successfully written to that
PMR by reading the PMRSTS property of the controller associated with that PMR. Failure to determine
whether data was successfully written to each PMR may result in data loss.
PMRCAP.PMRWBM enumerates supported PMR write barrier mechanisms. At least one mechanism shall
be supported. An implementation may optionally support a mechanism where a PCI Express read of any
size to the PMR, including a “zero-length read,” ensures that all previous memory writes (i.e., Posted PCI
Express requests) to the PMR have completed and are persistent. An implementation may optionally
support a write barrier mechanism that utilizes a read of the PMRSTS property. When supported, a read of
the PMRSTS property allows a host to:
•
ensure that previously issued memory writes to the PMR have completed; and
•
determine whether the PMR updates associated with those writes have completed without error
and are persistent.
A PMR memory write error may be the result of a poisoned PCI Express TLP, an NVM subsystem internal
error, or a PMR health status issue.
Regardless of the supported PMR write barrier mechanisms, a host may periodically read the PMRSTS
property to ensure that reads to the PMR have returned valid data. For example, if a read to the PMRSTS
property indicates that the PMR is operating normally is then followed by a series of reads, and finally a
second read to the PMRSTS property that indicates the PMR is unreliable, then one or more of the reads
between the two PMRSTS property reads may have returned invalid data. Such polling of the PMRSTS
property may be unnecessary if the host handles poisoned TLPs and/or poisoned TLP error reporting is
enabled.
The PMR write elasticity buffer size along with the PMR sustained write throughput allows a host to
determine the amount of time for a read associated with a Persistent Memory Region write barrier
mechanism to complete.
Support for PRPs, SGL Lists, Completion Queues, and Submission Queues in the Persistent Memory
Region is outside the scope of this specification. If the host attempts to use the Persistent Memory Region
for a PRP, SGL List, Completion Queue, or Submission Queue, the controller may abort the command with
a status code of Invalid Field in Command.
