##### 9.6.3.1 Idempotent Commands

> **Section ID**: 9.6.3.1 | **Page**: 770-770

Controller processing of an idempotent command produces the same end state on the NVM subsystem
and returns the same results if that command is resubmitted one or more times with no intervening
commands. All commands tend to modify some ancillary state on the controller (e.g., tracking statistics);
these ancillary changes to state do not prevent a command from being considered idempotent. The results
of the command include the status code (excluding transient status codes or error conditions, e.g., due to
a loss of communication), any data returned to the host and any NVM subsystem changes to user data or
state (e.g., reservation state, feature contents).
For example, a read command addressed to a specific location (e.g., LBA) in a namespace is an idempotent
command. The read command addressed to a valid location in a namespace returns the same data with a
successful completion status code if that command is submitted repeatedly. Similarly, a write command
addressed to a valid location in a namespace writes the same data to that location if submitted repeatedly.
This command is also an idempotent command.
On the other hand, a Namespace Management command (refer to section 5.2.21) that creates a
namespace is not idempotent (i.e., is a non-idempotent command), as repeating the Namespace
Management command creates additional namespaces with different namespace identifiers. Similarly, a
Reservation Register command that unregisters a host (refer to section 7.6) is also not idempotent because
repeating the command attempts to unregister a host that is no longer registered and returns an error status
code.
